15-SEP-2019 Matthew J. Wolf Email: matthew.wolf at speciosus.net

N4MTT Variable Voltage and Current Arduino Sketch 

A modified version Arduino script for the project that 
first appeared in the March 2015 issue of the ARRL QEX. 
The title of the article is "An Experimenter's Variable 
Voltage Transformer". 

I did not use a Arduino board. I used a ATMEGA328 that was loaded
with the Arduino boot loader. The provided schematic diagram does
not include all the details. My schematic and the schematic from
the QEX article are need for all the details.  
  
The major modifications are: 
 - Replacement of the floating point math for the the
   senors with lookup tables.
 - Addition of two buttons to enable adjustable current   
   limit.
 - Added a 5 volt reference.

-- Original comments from the original Ted Drell, W5HEU, 
  version of the sketch. --
 
  Variac Voltage and Current Monitor
  Set for a 16x2 LCD display.
  The circuit:
   LCD RS pin to digital pin 7
   LCD Enable pin to digital pin 6
   LCD D4 pin to digital pin 5
   LCD D5 pin to digital pin 4
   LCD D6 pin to digital pin 3
   LCD D7 pin to digital pin 2
   LCD R/W pin to ground
   10K resistor:
   ends to +5V and ground
   wiper to LCD VO pin (pin 3)
 
  Library originally added 18 Apr 2008
  by David A. Mellis
  library modified 5 Jul 2009
  by Limor Fried (http://www.ladyada.net)

 -- End of Ted Drell's, W5HEU Comments --
 

The ATMEGA328P does not have A FPU. I replaced the
floating point math for the voltage and current 
sensor with a lookup tables. The ADC has 1024 possible 
values. It is easy to determine all the possible
values for each of the ADC values because the range
of the senors is known. 

I added two buttons so that max current could be 
adjustable. The Range for the current is from the
MaxCur variable to 0.01 . The max current is saved to 
EEPROM when current menu is exited with 5th 
push of button A. The max current is restored 
when the microprocessor is reset or power cycled.  
 -1st push A display Menu        - B button exit 
 -2nd push A Cursor on Amp       - B button inc AMP (0 to max)
 -3rd push A Cursor on deci Amp  - B button inc deci Amp
 -4th push A Cursor on centi Amp - B button inc centi Amp
 -5th Push A exit Menu
 -The cursor blinks on the decimal point that is 
  changed by button B.
 
 I formatted the voltage line on the LCD so that it 
 stays in the same column on the LCD for all values. 
 
I used a 5 Amp Variac vs the 3 Amp Variac of the original design. 
